Programming Concepts

* Cloud Server
	A Cloud Server is the server-side component of the infrastructure that is located in the 'Cloud'. The system provides various mobile-oriented
	features like offline synchronization, comet-style push, and mobile service rpc. From an architecture standpoint its sits between the 
	mobile device and the actual cloud data services being mobilized. The Cloud Server provides a Java based Developer API to expose your
	data services. Here are its programming concepts:
		
		* Channel
		  A Channel serves as a gateway for integrating on-device model/data objects with the
 		  server-side backend storage systems such as relational databases, content repositories, or 
          Enterprise systems like CRMs, ERPs etc. It provides a simple CRUD (Create, Read, Update, and Delete)
          interface to expose the backend data. The Channel is specifically designed such that the Developer does
          not have to worry about any low-level state management, and synchronization issues.
          
        
        * MobileServiceBean
          A MobileServiceBean exposes some coarse grained business process to the on-device mobile app. It provides a very simple
          request/response based synchronous invocation mechanism. It frees up the developer from all low-level RPC concerns like
          making network connections, security, marshalling/unmarshalling payloads etc. Note: This component is quite simple at the time of the
          milestone M1 release. Eventually it will provide more robust REST-based functionality. In any case, the Developer will still be
          shielded from the low-level protocol details including a REST-based approach or not.
          

* Moblet 
  	A Moblet is a mobile app that uses the various device-side OpenMobster frameworks to integrate with the OpenMobster Cloud Server. A moblet developer can use
  	the following device-side frameworks available.
  	
  		* Mobile Cloud Framework
  		  The Mobile Cloud Framework provides components used to use offline synchronized data, receive comet-style push notifications, and
  		  make mobile service rpc calls
  		  
  		  * MobileBean
  		    MobileBean is a managed Mobile Component which carries the state of the domain object that it represents on the server. It is
  		    propagated from the Cloud Server to the mobile device via its corresponding "Channel" on the server. The Mobile Bean framework shields
  		    the App developer from state management issues like, offline access, receiving push notifications related to state changes on the server,
            synchronizing locally modified beans back with the server etc.
            
          * PushListener
            
            
          * MobileService
            Mobile Service facilitates making synchronous RPC invocations from the device to the server side 'MobileServiceBean' components
         
         * Mobile MVC Framework
           This is a thick client MVC (Model-View-Controller) framework. It is based on a 
           <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rich_Internet_application">Rich Internet Application</a> design principle.
           At this point in time of evolution of the mobile space, there isn't a commonly adopted GUI development standard across various
           mobile platforms. This results in a lot of App porting activity across platforms. Although this framework
           is not designed for (Write Once, Run Anywhere) approach, it abstracts out a lot of the UI Framework plumbing that would otherwise
           need to be written, ported and maintained by the developer. The framework abstracts out some of the low level services into the container
           such as App bootstrapping, screen navigation, graceful error handling, and internationalization. There are two types of components in this framework that
           use a plugin mechanism and receive call backs to perform activities implemented using native platform API. These components are:
           
           	* Screen
           	  Screen is an abstraction for an instance of the App screen that must be made visible to the user at a particular moment in time
           	  The low level Navigation Manager keeps track of the various screens of an App and provides services such as navigating to a specified screen, 
           	  going back to the previous screen, and going to the home screen. Besides the actual implementation of a "Screen" all services
           	  related to a "Screen" are portable across mobile platforms
           	  
           * Command
             Command is an abstraction for an instance of a GUI Event Handler which receives various callbacks based on the screen's lifecycle
             A command typically puts a business process into motion via accessing various other services like the Mobile Cloud Framework components
             and/or native platform services
             
           The Mobile MVC Framework is extensible to support various GUI frameworks. This does open the door for integrating cross platform GUI 
           frameworks like standard widgets, HTML5 based GUI, etc.
           
           
* Mobile Cloud
  	Mobile Cloud is an on-device native runtime. It hosts the runtime that is used by the Mobile Cloud Framework and the Mobile MVC Framework.
  	On platforms that support inter-application communication, there is a single instance of a Mobile Cloud which is shared by all the Moblets
  	installed on the device. This helps make better use of device resources like storage, network management, background services, etc. On platforms
  	that do not support inter-application communication, an instance of the Mobile Cloud runtime must be installed by bundling it with each 
  	Moblet
            
          
  		    	  
          
          